= devise_security_extension

An enterprise security extension for devise, trying to meet industrial standard security demands for web applications.

== Features

* captcha support for sign_up, sign_in, recover and unlock (to make automated mass creation and brute forcing of accounts harder)
 
=== Model modules

* :password_expirable - passwords will expire after a configured time (and will need an update)
* :secure_validatable - better way to validate a model (email, stronger password validation). Don't use with :validatable!
* :password_archivable - save used passwords in an old_passwords table for history checks (don't be able to use a formerly used password)
* :session_limitable - ensures, that there is only one session usable per account at once
* :expirable - expires a user account after x days of inactivity (default 90 days)

== Installation
Add to Gemfile
  gem 'devise_security_extension'

after bundle install
  rails g devise_security_extension:install

for :secure_validatable you need to add
  gem 'rails_email_validator' 

== Configuration

  Devise.setup do |config|
    # Should the password expire (e.g 3.months)
    # config.expire_password_after = 3.months

    # Need 1 char of A-Z, a-z and 0-9
    # config.password_regex = /(?=.*\d)(?=.*[a-z])(?=.*[A-Z])/

    # How often save old passwords in archive
    # config.password_archiving_count = 5

    # Deny old password (true, false, count)
    # config.deny_old_passwords = true

    # captcha integration for recover form 
    # config.captcha_for_recover = true
  
    # captcha integration for sign up form
    # config.captcha_for_sign_up = true
  
    # captcha integration for sign in form
    # config.captcha_for_sign_in = true
  
    # captcha integration for unlock form
    # config.captcha_for_unlock = true

    # ==> Configuration for :expirable
    # Time period for account expiry from last_activity_at
    config.expire_after = 90.days
  end
    
== Captcha-Support

=== Installation

1. add to Gemfile "gem 'easy_captcha'"
2. install easy_captcha "rails g easy_captcha:install"
3. enable captcha - see "Configuration"
4. add captcha source in the devise views for each controller you have activated

  <p><%= captcha_tag %></p>
  <p><%= text_field_tag :captcha %></p>

That's it!


== Schema

=== Password expirable

  create_table :users do |t|
    # other devise fields

    t.datetime, :password_changed_at
  end

=== Password archivable

  create_table :old_passwords do |t|
    t.string :encrypted_password, :null => false
    t.string :password_salt
    t.string :password_archivable_type, :null => false
    t.integer :password_archivable_id, :null => false
    t.datetime :created_at
  end
  add_index :old_passwords, [:password_archivable_type, :password_archivable_id], :name => :index_password_archivable

=== Session limitable

  create_table :the_resources do |t|
    # other devise fields

    t.string, :unique_session_id, :limit => 20
  end

=== Expirable

  create_table :the_resources do |t|
    # other devise fields

    t.datetime :last_activity_at
    t.datetime :expired_at
  end

== Mongoid-Support

if you want to use "Password archivable" with Mongoid, you must overwrite our "ActiveRecord" model.

  class OldPassword
    include Mongoid::Document
    include Mongoid::Timestamps

    field :encrypted_password, :type => String
    field :password_salt, :type => String
    field :password_archivable_id, :type => Integer
    field :password_archivable_type, :type => String

    belongs_to :password_archivable, :polymorphic => true
    attr_accessible :encrypted_password
  end


== Requirements

* devise (https://github.com/plataformatec/devise)
* Rails 3 (http://github.com/rails/rails)
* recommendation: autocomplete-off (http://github.com/phatworx/autocomplete-off)

== Todo

* see the github issues (feature requests)

== History
* 0.1 expire passwords
* 0.2 strong password validation
* 0.3 password archivable with validation
* 0.4 captcha support for sign_up, sign_in, recover and unlock
* 0.5 session_limitable module
* 0.6 expirable module

== Maintainers

* Team Phatworx (http://github.com/phatworx)
* Marco Scholl (http://github.com/traxanos)
* Alexander Dreher (http://github.com/alexdreher)
* Christoph Chilian (http://github.com/cc-web)

== Contributing to devise_security_extension
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Marco Scholl. See LICENSE.txt for further details.
